
//Practice Problem Statements:
1. Check if a Character is a Vowel or Consonant:
   Given a character, determine if it is a vowel (a, e, i, o, u) or a consonant using conditional statements.

2. Find the biggest among two numbers.?

3. Find the number belonging to which group above 50, between 40 to 50, less than 40.?

4. Write a Program to check the given number is divisible by both 3&4 if it is so print "Good Morning".
If a number is divisible by only 4 but not 3 then print "Good Afternoon",
If it is divisible by only 3 but not 4 then print "Good Evening" otherwise print "Good Night".?

5. Java program to check if a given year is a leap year or not.?

6. Write a program that takes a score as input and prints out the corresponding grade according to the
following grading scheme:
 90 or above: A
 80-89: B
 70-79: C
 60-69: D
 Below 60: F.?

7. Develop a simple program to calculation to perform an operation we have four choices if you choose
1.Addition
2.Subtraction
3.Multiplication
4.Division

8. Shraddha Kapoor’s professor suggested that she study hard and prepare well for the lesson on seasons. If her
professor says month then, she has to tell the name of the season corresponding to that month. So write the
program to get the solution to the above task?
 March to May – Spring Season
 June to August – Summer Season
 September to November – Autumn Season
 December to February – Winter Season
Note: The entered month should be in the range of 1 to 12. If the user enters a month less than 1 or greater
than 12 then the message “Invalid Month Entered” should get displayed.

//For loop problems
1. Write a program to print numbers from 1 to N using a for
   loop.

2. Write a program to find the sum of the first N natural numbers using a for loop.

3. Write a program to print the multiplication table of a number N
using a for loop.

4. Write a program to find the factorial of a given number using a
for loop.

5. Write a program to generate the Fibonacci series up to a certain number of terms n.?

6. Write a program to check the given number is prime or not.?

7. Write a program to print all prime numbers between
    1 and N using a for loop.

//While Loop Problems:

1. Write a program to print numbers from 1 to N using a while loop.

2. Write a program to calculate the sum of digits of a given number using a while loop.

3. Write a program to find the largest digit in a given number using a while loop.

4. Write a program to count how many even numbers are there between 1 and N using a while loop.

//Do-While Loop Problems:

1. Write a program to print numbers from 1 to N using a do-while loop.

2. Write a program to find the sum of digits of a number using a do-while loop.

3. Write a program to calculate the power of a number (base raised to the exponent) using a do-while loop.

//other programs

1. Write a Java method that takes an integer as input and returns true if it is a prime number,
otherwise returns false.

2. Write a Java method to calculate the factorial of a given number.

3. Write a Java method to generate the Fibonacci series up to a specified number of terms.

4. Write a Java method to calculate the power of a number raised to an exponent.

5. Write a Java method to calculate the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers.

6. Write a Java method to calculate the least common multiple (LCM) of two numbers.

7. Write a Java method to check if a given number is an Armstrong number.

8. Write a Java method to check if a given number is a perfect number.
